now there growing fears that Lebanon
could be drawn into the Gaza conflict
since the War Began in October tension
has been rising in southern Lebanon
where the Israeli military and Hezbollah
have exchanged fire Israeli war planes
struck a Target near the Border Town of
Hulan Tuesday the Israeli military also
said it hit a Hezbollah anti-tank
missile launcher near kafar Kila joining
us to discuss this is Hisham jabber
who's a retired Lebanese Army General
he's also head of the Middle East Center
for studies and research in beay thank
you very much for being with us on Al
jazer so crossborder fire between the
Israeli Army and HB intensifying we've
seen in the last few days we saw the
most intense Israeli bombardment of a
single location on Tuesday just how
serious is the risk of escalation right
now the situation in South leanon right
now is very tense is at the limit to
open the large large scale war between
Lebanon and Israel hasah as we said from
the beginning will not take the great
responsibility to make the first strike
I mean first strike is the strike will
which will open the large War not the
exchange of
mes which is happening within three
months
trying to respond to Israeli shining the
isi strikes you know uh in three three
periods you know from the beginning he
was targeting
only isi military targets right which
the geography of Lebanon uh allow him to
Target by missiles right uh on
you know anti-ar anti Tonks and direct
missiles which will not be discovered by
by
the
uh by the uh Israel you know the is
General ja let me ask you this can I ask
you what do you know about the Israeli
military presence along the border with
Lebanon at the moment because some
reports have suggested that isra is
pulling out troops from Gaza to add
forces near the Israel Lebanon border
and therefore increasing their true true
presence there is that's what's
happening you know and and what would
this increase in true presence along
that border signal you
think no I don't think is needs to whenw
fromaz the sou Israel has 10 division at
least when you know Israel put it from
the beginning and increase the forces in
North Lebanon Israel has right now uh
around 50,000 soldiers three
divisions with plus two brigades and
North uh Israel I don't think needs to
take uh soldiers from or bades from Gaza
to increase the force in Lebanon okay
for the time being in case it open the
large war between them and Israel of
course Israel will bring other troop
other soldiers other brigades other
divisions from inside thank you so much
we'll leave there different yeah thank
you is has has the West Bank has Gaza
there are several fronts there there are
several fronts that Israel is having to
deal with right now thank you so much
General jabber for talking to us about
this Hisham jabber is a retired Lebanese
Army General joining us there from
Beirut